+++
title = "Do not abandon something simply because it has flaws"
publishDate = 2026-06-15T00:00:00-05:00
tags = ["blog"]
draft = false
+++

I often have a "grass is always greener" mentality when it comes to technology.
This is especially prominent in choice of programming language, but it also
crops up when choosing software, games to play, or shows to watch. I notice this
behavior almost exclusively with technology because of the adjacency of answers
on the internet; anecdotal evicence is one tab away.

I started using the Zig programming language recently --- and when I read
genuine complaints about the language --- it made me want to stop learning it.
This is an absolutely ridiculous notion. I hadn't used the language for any
length of time. I pushed through the critiques, and found the language
incredibly enjoyable. I could feel the thought and effort put behind the project
by the creator [Andrew Kelly](https://andrewkelley.me/).

There will always be those with a differing opinion from yours. It is not your
job to listen, and I would even say its better to form your own opinions on
something rather than blindly trusting someone else. And, if you go into
something with a eye for its flaws, you will most certainly see them.

"There are only two kinds of languages: the ones people complain about and the
ones nobody uses." <a href="#citeproc_bib_item_1">[1]</a>

You can love something even if it is imperfect.

tl;dr
Everything has flaws. Nothing is perfect. Do what brings you joy. Form your own
opinions. And don't worry too much about what other people have to say about it.

## References

<div class="csl-bib-body">
  <div class="csl-entry"><a id="citeproc_bib_item_1"></a>
    <div class="csl-left-margin">[1]</div><div class="csl-right-inline">B. Stroustrup, <i>The C++ programming language</i>, Special. Addison-Wesley, 2000, p. 9.</div>
  </div>
</div>
