+++
title = "Ideas are not software"
publishDate = 2026-05-02T00:00:00-05:00
tags = ["blog"]
draft = false
+++

What is the distinction between hardware and software? It is the distinction
between something physical---a machine---and the intangible programs that run on
it. In this way, the brain is hardware, and the software is the signals sent and
received by its neurons. But something arises out of those signals that Douglas
Hofstadter refers to as "etherware---the pure concepts which lie on the back of
the software" <a href="#citeproc_bib_item_1">[1]</a>. He gives the example of two
programs---written in different languages, running on different hardware---that
achieve the same goal. (If you are not a computer programmer, imagine instead
two translations of one sentence into different natural languages.) How would
you compare them? The answer is to step back from both the hardware and the
software and look at what the programs _mean_---the ideas behind them.

Ideas are not software. They are more abstract. Hardware, software, and
etherware all work together to allow our consciousness to function.
Consciousness can perceive the software running in our brain, but not the
hardware underneath. These are the three layers that make up
consciousness---each interacting only with its neighbor.

## References

<div class="csl-bib-body">
  <div class="csl-entry"><a id="citeproc_bib_item_1"></a>
    <div class="csl-left-margin">[1]</div><div class="csl-right-inline">D. R. Hofstadter, <i>Gödel, Escher, Bach: An eternal golden braid</i>, 20th-anniversary ed., [Repr.]. New York: Basic Books, 20AD.</div>
  </div>
</div>
