+++
title = "Folgezettel is an alphanumeric identification system for the Zettelkasten"
publishDate = 2026-05-29T00:00:00-05:00
tags = ["publish"]
draft = false
+++

Previous: [The Zettelkasten is informed by what currently interests you]({{< relref "1.2b The Zettelkasten is informed by what currently interests you.md" >}})

Folgezettel  is an alphanumeric identification system for the Zettelkasten. It
works by applying a consistent numbering to main notes as they are created,
forming initial relationships with other notes. The folgezettel imposes no top
down structure on the Zettelkasten, instead it applies relationships between
notes which can be followed to build chains of thought.

> The alphanumeric system, later dubbed "folgezettel" or "follow-up note," allowed
> Luhmann to work non-hierarchically. Ideas were no longer bound to topics, listed
> alphabetically, or cataloged according to consecutive prime numbers only, all of
> which would have created a linearly organized system. By employing
> _combinations_ of numbers and letters, Luhmann was able to place notes in
> between one another, allowing ideas to branch off in any
> direction.<a href="#citeproc_bib_item_1">[1, pp. 79–80]</a>

## References

<div class="csl-bib-body">
  <div class="csl-entry"><a id="citeproc_bib_item_1"></a>
    <div class="csl-left-margin">[1]</div><div class="csl-right-inline">B. Doto, <i>A system for writing: How an unconventional approach to note-making can help you capture ideas, think wildly, and write constantly: A Zettelkasten primer</i>, First edition. United States: New Old Traditions, 2024.</div>
  </div>
</div>
