+++
title = "An interface note is a tool to help navigate trains of thought"
publishDate = 2026-05-29T00:00:00-05:00
tags = ["publish"]
draft = false
+++

Because of the minimal imposed structure on the main compartment of the
Zettelkasten, there needs to be some way to interface with the ideas stored
within. This is accomplished in the form of interface notes, which are tools to
help navigate trains of thought. There are three different kinds of interface
notes and each can provide a high-level view into a user's Zettelkasten.

In _A System for Writing_ by Bob Doto, he suggests three types of interface
notes:

1.  Hub:
    The hub note is a launching off point for different trains of thought. After
    a while certain trains will become more developed than others; these can be
    put in the hub note and commented on to indicate the contents of the chain.
2.  Structure:
    A structure note will generally start its life out as a section heading and
    then start accumulating more information about the topic. They are meant to
    contain explanations about connections, and are a great place to start
    looking when beginning a writing project.
3.  (Keyword) Index:
    This is allegedly what Niklas Luhmann used the most in his
    personal Zettelkasten. This is most akin to an index at the back of a book,
    where keywords list their locations in order for the reader to find them. You
    could have multiple of these kinds of note, each with a different criteria,
    but generally I think one would be more than sufficient. Most people would
    opt to imitate what is found in books, while others can index by things like
    how the notes make them feel or where the notes were taken.
    <a href="#citeproc_bib_item_1">[1]</a>

## References

<div class="csl-bib-body">
  <div class="csl-entry"><a id="citeproc_bib_item_1"></a>
    <div class="csl-left-margin">[1]</div><div class="csl-right-inline">B. Doto, <i>A system for writing: How an unconventional approach to note-making can help you capture ideas, think wildly, and write constantly: A Zettelkasten primer</i>, First edition. United States: New Old Traditions, 2024.</div>
  </div>
</div>
